DEV_GUIDE.md, before:

<sup><sub>Author: Piero Dalle Pezze</sup></sub>
<sup><sub>Version: 1.0</sup></sub>
<sup><sub>Since: 1.0</sup></sub>
<sup><sub>Date: 25/01/2016</sup></sub>


# Developer Guide


## Introduction
This guide is meant for developers of the project (AstroJournal)[https://github.com/pdp10/AstroJournal].


## Requirements
To compile AstroJournal you need to install:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

- [Java 1.7+](https://java.com/en/download/)

- [Maven](http://maven.apache.org/)

- [TeX Live](http://www.tug.org/texlive/) (for Linux Users) or [MikTeX](http://miktex.org/download) (for Windows Users) or [MacTeX](https://tug.org/mactex/) (pdflatex must be installed)

See README.md for installation details of LaTeX packages for GNU/Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X.


## Clone and Compile
To clone AstroJournal repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/pdp10/AstroJournal.git
```

To test the correct installation of Maven type:
```
mvn --version
```

To add dependencies using Eclipse type:
```
mvn eclipse:eclipse
```

To simply test AstroJournal type:
```
mvn test
```

To create a jar file for AstroJournal type:
```
mvn package
```

To read the source code documentation type:
```
mvn javadoc:javadoc
```

To clean the project:
```
mvn clean
```

To test AstroJournal on GNU/Linux type (run *mvn package* first):
```
./astrojournal.sh
```


## Integration Tests
A .travis.yml script is included with this project in order to perform continuous integration tests at each git push.
To use travis-ci, an account on github.com is required as now and [this guide](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/getting-started/) 
is suggested. Information on how to fork AstroJournal can be found [here](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/).


## Development Model
This project follows the Feature-Branching model. Briefly, there are two main branches: `master` and `devel`. The former contains the history of stable releases, the latter contains the history of development. The `master` branch only serves as checkout points for production hot-fixes or as merge point for release-x.x.x branches. The `devel` branch only serves for feature/bug-fix integration and as checkout point and is is versionless. Nobody should directly develop in here.


### Conventions
- Each new feature is developed in a separate branch called feature_NUMBER, where NUMBER is the number of the issue discussing this feature. The first line of each commit message for this branch should report (Issue #NUMBER) at the end before the dot. Doing so, the commit is automatically recorded by the Issue Tracking System for that specific Issue. Note that `#` is required.  
- Same for each new bug-fix, but in this case the branch name is called bugfix_NUMBER.
- Same for each new hot-fix, but in this case the branch name is called hotfix_NUMBER.


### Work Flow
- Each new feature is checked out from the branch `devel` we want to add functionalities / fix bugs.
- Same for new bug fixes.
- Each new hot-fix is checked out from the `master` branch.

The procedure for checking out a new feature from the `devel` branch is: 
```
$ git checkout -b feature_10 devel
```
This creates the `feature_10` branch off `devel`. 
When you are ready to add and commit your work, run:
```
$ git commit -am "Summary of the changes (Issue #10). Detailed description of the changes, if any."
$ git push origin feature_10       # sometimes and at the end.
```

When `feature_10` is completed and tested, merge this branch to `devel` WITHOUT a fast-forward, so that the history of `feature_10` is also recorded (= we know that there was a branch, which is very useful for debugging). 
```
$ git pull origin devel         # update the branch devel in the local repository. NEVER DO THIS on master.
$ git checkout devel            # switch to devel
$ git merge --no-ff feature_10  
```

**NOTE:** Not sure whether the above is safer than the below.
```
$ git checkout devel
$ git fetch origin devel         # Update your local copy of the remote repository in .git/
$ git merge --no-ff feature_10   # merge without fast-forward. Note: git pull is equivalent to `git fetch && git merge`. It does fast-forward though.
```

Alternatively, use a pull request to open a discussion. 

When the integration tests are successful, then: 
```
$ git branch -d feature_10      # delete the branch feature_10 (locally)
```

Finally, push everything to the server:
```
$ git push origin devel
$ git push origin feature_10   # if not done before
```

### New Releases:
When the `devel` branch includes all the desired feature for a release, it is time to checkout this 
branch in a new one called `release-x.x.x`. It is at this stage that a version is established. Only bug-fixes or hot-fixes are applied to this branch. When this testing/correction phase is completed, the `master` branch will merge with the `release-x.x.x` branch, using the commands above.
Finally, to record the version by adding a tag:
```
git tag -a v1.3 -m "PROGRAM_NAME v1.3"
```


## Project Structure: 
Not written yet! 



## Miscellaneous of Useful Commands:

### Git

##### Update
$ git pull [--rebase] origin BRANCH  # ONLY use --rebase for private branches. Never use it for shared branches otherwise it breaks the history. --rebase moves your commits ahead. I think for shared branches, you should use `git fetch && git merge --no-ff`. **[FOR NOW, DON'T USE REBASE BEFORE AGREED]**.

##### File System
$ git rm [--cache] filename 
$ git add filename

##### Information
$ git status 
$ git log [--stat]
$ git branch       # list the branches

##### Maintenance
$ git fsck      # check errors
$ git gc        # clean up

Commit message:

Added information about preparing a release.

DEV_GUIDE.md, after:

<sup><sub>Author: Piero Dalle Pezze</sup></sub>
<sup><sub>Version: 1.0</sup></sub>
<sup><sub>Since: 1.0</sup></sub>
<sup><sub>Date: 25/01/2016</sup></sub>


# Developer Guide


## Introduction
This guide is meant for developers of the project (AstroJournal)[https://github.com/pdp10/AstroJournal].


## Requirements
To compile AstroJournal you need to install:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

- [Java 1.7+](https://java.com/en/download/)

- [Maven](http://maven.apache.org/)

- [TeX Live](http://www.tug.org/texlive/) (for Linux Users) or [MikTeX](http://miktex.org/download) (for Windows Users) or [MacTeX](https://tug.org/mactex/) (pdflatex must be installed)

See README.md for installation details of LaTeX packages for GNU/Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X.


## Clone and Compile
To clone AstroJournal repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/pdp10/AstroJournal.git
```

To test the correct installation of Maven type:
```
mvn --version
```

To add dependencies using Eclipse type:
```
mvn eclipse:eclipse
```

To simply test AstroJournal type:
```
mvn test
```

To create a jar file for AstroJournal type:
```
mvn package
```

To read the source code documentation type:
```
mvn javadoc:javadoc
```

To clean the project:
```
mvn clean
```

To test AstroJournal on GNU/Linux type (run *mvn package* first):
```
./astrojournal.sh
```


## Integration Tests
A .travis.yml script is included with this project in order to perform continuous integration tests at each git push.
To use travis-ci, an account on github.com is required as now and [this guide](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/getting-started/) 
is suggested. Information on how to fork AstroJournal can be found [here](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/).


## Development Model
This project follows the Feature-Branching model. Briefly, there are two main branches: `master` and `devel`. The former contains the history of stable releases, the latter contains the history of development. The `master` branch only serves as checkout points for production hot-fixes or as merge point for release-x.x.x branches. The `devel` branch only serves for feature/bug-fix integration and as checkout point and is is versionless. Nobody should directly develop in here.


### Conventions
- Each new feature is developed in a separate branch called feature_NUMBER, where NUMBER is the number of the issue discussing this feature. The first line of each commit message for this branch should report (Issue #NUMBER) at the end before the dot. Doing so, the commit is automatically recorded by the Issue Tracking System for that specific Issue. Note that `#` is required.  
- Same for each new bug-fix, but in this case the branch name is called bugfix_NUMBER.
- Same for each new hot-fix, but in this case the branch name is called hotfix_NUMBER.


### Work Flow
- Each new feature is checked out from the branch `devel` we want to add functionalities / fix bugs.
- Same for new bug fixes.
- Each new hot-fix is checked out from the `master` branch.

The procedure for checking out a new feature from the `devel` branch is: 
```
$ git checkout -b feature_10 devel
```
This creates the `feature_10` branch off `devel`. 
When you are ready to add and commit your work, run:
```
$ git commit -am "Summary of the changes (Issue #10). Detailed description of the changes, if any."
$ git push origin feature_10       # sometimes and at the end.
```

When `feature_10` is completed and tested, merge this branch to `devel` WITHOUT a fast-forward, so that the history of `feature_10` is also recorded (= we know that there was a branch, which is very useful for debugging). 
```
$ git pull origin devel         # update the branch devel in the local repository. NEVER DO THIS on master.
$ git checkout devel            # switch to devel
$ git merge --no-ff feature_10  
```

**NOTE:** Not sure whether the above is safer than the below.
```
$ git checkout devel
$ git fetch origin devel         # Update your local copy of the remote repository in .git/
$ git merge --no-ff feature_10   # merge without fast-forward. Note: git pull is equivalent to `git fetch && git merge`. It does fast-forward though.
```

Alternatively, use a pull request to open a discussion. 

When the integration tests are successful, then: 
```
$ git branch -d feature_10      # delete the branch feature_10 (locally)
```

Finally, push everything to the server:
```
$ git push origin devel
$ git push origin feature_10   # if not done before
```

### New Releases:
When the `devel` branch includes all the desired feature for a release, it is time to checkout this 
branch in a new one called `release-x.x.x`. It is at this stage that a version is established. Only bug-fixes or hot-fixes are applied to this branch. When this testing/correction phase is completed, the `master` branch will merge with the `release-x.x.x` branch, using the commands above.
To record the release add a tag:
```
git tag -a v1.3 -m "PROGRAM_NAME v1.3"
```
To transfer the tag to the remote server:
```
git push origin v1.3   # Note: it goes in a separate 'branch'
```
To see all the releases:
```
git show
```



## Project Structure: 
Not written yet! 



## Miscellaneous of Useful Commands:

### Git

##### Update
$ git pull [--rebase] origin BRANCH  # ONLY use --rebase for private branches. Never use it for shared branches otherwise it breaks the history. --rebase moves your commits ahead. I think for shared branches, you should use `git fetch && git merge --no-ff`. **[FOR NOW, DON'T USE REBASE BEFORE AGREED]**.

##### File System
$ git rm [--cache] filename 
$ git add filename

##### Information
$ git status 
$ git log [--stat]
$ git branch       # list the branches

##### Maintenance
$ git fsck      # check errors
$ git gc        # clean up
